---
title: "Performance"
description: "The PlayerZero snippet is designed to be fast."
---

**Will PlayerZero have a negligible impact on my site's performance?**

### tldr;

The PlayerZero snippet will have a negligible impact on your siteâ€™s performance.

### Is the PlayerZero snippet large?

Nope! In fact, it is about 105 KB, which is smaller than most web resources.

### How does PlayerZero record data? Is there a lot of slow computation required?

We utilize event listeners and observers to detect user interactions, console
logs/errors, network requests, and more! To avoid any potential slowdown in
these areas, our system is designed to simply record the data as it happens and
perform more involved processing later on. In fact, a large portion of our
algorithms either run on the server side or are scheduled to run during idle
periods of the browser so that it is completely imperceivable to the user.

### What is the impact of event processing, uploading data, or more involved tasks?

The majority of the time we are simply collecting data (that resolves itself in
fractions of a millisecond), but at times we need to do additional processing or
uploading of the data. However, even these more complex functions have been
engineered to resolve quickly and the majority of executions resolve in a few
milliseconds with 0 total blocking time.

You can see a list of the longest function calls from a session on a popular
ecommerce site on the right.

When it comes to the upload, we've spent a lot of time ensuring our process
doesn't impact the user. Most of the time, our communications with PlayerZero
servers contain a small amount of data, which allows our server to perform more
complex algorithms and return results asynchronously. And when we need to upload
entire sessions, our approach utilizes efficiencies such as input streams and
compressed resources to seamlessly transfer data.

![](/images/Screen_Shot_2022-10-19_at_4.34.44_PM.png)

### What if the PlayerZero snippet errors in my application?

In the unlikely event that our data collection system errors, we prevent any
impact on your own site or the capturing of irrelevant data and instantly report
the necessary information to our engineering team. Because of this, we have
consistently improved our data collection system, without any effect on the end
user.

### Will the PlayerZero script loading impact my site?

Not at all! Our snippet loads asynchronously, so it will not delay the rendering
or interactivity of your site.
